.\" SMS1XXX - Siano DVB-T USB driver for FreeBSD 8.0 and higher:
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2008-2014, Ganaël Laplanche, http://contribs.martymac.org
.\"
.\" This driver contains code taken from the FreeBSD dvbusb driver:
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2006-2007, Raaf
.\" Copyright (C) 2004-2006, Patrick Boettcher
.\"
.\" This driver contains code taken from the Linux siano driver:
.\"
.\" Siano Mobile Silicon, Inc.
.\" MDTV receiver kernel modules.
.\" Copyright (C) 2006-2009, Uri Shkolnik
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License version 2 as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\"
.\" Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS"
.\" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.\"
.\" See the GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.Dd February 23, 2010
.Dt SMS1XXX 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm sms1xxx
.Nd "Siano DVB-T USB driver for FreeBSD 8.0 and higher"
.Sh SYNOPSIS
To load the driver at boot time, place the
following line in
.Xr loader.conf 5 :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
sms1xxx_load="YES"
.Ed
.Pp
Also, do not forget to load your firmware module.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
module is a native driver for Siano-based DVB-T USB devices released under
the GPL v2.0 license. It should work on any version of FreeBSD >= 8.0.
.Pp
It is a port of linux' sms1xxx driver (see drivers/media/dvb/siano
in the kernel source tree), initially from Linux kernel v.2.6.27.
The FreeBSD version of the driver is based on the great dvbusb driver
written by Raaf.
.Sh HARDWARE
The
.Nm
driver has been successfully tested with the following devices:
.Pp
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
Terratec Cinergy Piranha
.It
Hauppauge WinTV MiniStick (HD)
.El
.Pp
Other Siano-based devices should work, just give a try (you will need to edit
the sources and add new VIDs/PIDs to make your device detected).
.El
.Sh TUNING
.Pp
Some sysctls are available for your convenience.
.Pp
Global sysctls :
.Bl -bullet -compact
.Pp
.It
hw.usb.sms1xxx.freq_offset: Global frequency offset (Hz)
.Pp
This sysctl will apply a global offset each time a tuning is performed.
166000 is necessary for Paris (France). It may or may not be necessary to
change that value, depending on where you live and the kind of hardware
you use.
.Pp
.It
hw.usb.sms1xxx.requested_mode: Requested mode
(0=DVB-T, 1=DVB-H, 2=DAB/T-DMB, 4=DVB-T/BDA, 5=ISDBT, 6=ISDBT/BDA)
.Pp
This sysctl is the mode that will be requested when plugging the next device.
You must have loaded the corresponding firmware module.
Please note that currently, only DVB-T (mode 4) is supported
(this is the default mode).
.El
.Pp
Per-device sysctls :
.Bl -bullet -compact
.Pp
.It
dev.sms1xxx.n.mode: Current running mode (read-only)
.Pp
This sysctl represents the current running mode.
.Pp
.It
dev.sms1xxx.n.ir_module_started: IR module started (read-only)
.Pp
If an IR module is available and sucessfully started, this sysctl will
be set to 1.
.Pp
.It
dev.sms1xxx.n.use_lna: Use LNA before tuning
.Pp
If LNA (Low Noise Amplifier) handling is supported by your device, this sysctl
will appear. Setting it to 1 will make the driver turn LNA on before each tuning
request. See the sysctl's description for more details.
.Pp
.It
hw.usb.sms1xxx.debug: Debug level (debug-only)
.Pp
This sysctl is an or-able value representing requested debug message levels.
.Pp
.It
dev.sms1xxx.n.led_status: Set status LEDs (debug-only)
.Pp
You can check if your device supports LEDs handling by buildind the driver
with debug support and check if this sysctl appears once the device is
plugged in. This sysctl can be used to test LEDs by setting it to special
values. See the sysctl's description for more details.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
See the README file provided with the driver for more details.
.Sh AUTHORS
This driver has been written by
.An Ganaël Laplanche (http://contribs.martymac.org).
